# 1. Static Checking

## What is static checking
Check for bugs at compile time

2 ways for automatically checking 
- Static Types
- Dynamic Types

Statically-typed language: Java, Typescript (At compile time (before the program runs))
Dynamically-typed language: JavaScript, Python

3 kinds of automatic checking 
- Static checking: Bug is found automatically before program runs.
- Dynamic checking: Bug is found autonmatically when code is executed
- No checking: Cannot help you to find the error

## Java Traps
- Integer Division
    - `7/2` does not return a fraction, it returns a truncated integer `3`
- Integer Overflow
    - `int` and `long` types are actually finite sets of integers, with maximum and minimum values.
- Special Values in `float` and `double`
    - `float` and `double` types have several special values that aren't real numbers: `NaN`, `POSITIVE_INFINITY`, and `NEGATIVE_INFINITY`
    - So operations that you would expect to product dynamic errors, like dividing by 0 or taking the sqare root of a negative number
    
### Examples of buggy code 
#### Example 1
``` Java
int n=5;
if (n) {
    n = n + 1
}
```

static error
Because `if` statement requires an expression of `boolean` type, but `n` has `int` type.


#### Example 2
``` Java
int big = 200000; // 200,000
big = big * big;  // big should be 40 billion now
```
no error, wrong answer
It causes overflow for an integer. The an `int` value cannot represent a number larger than 2^31
Overflow cannot be caught statically and dynamically 

#### Example 3
``` Java
double probability = 1/5;
```
no error, wrong answer
Java chooses integer division, and it quietly truncates the fraction and produces the wrong answer: 0

#### Example 4
``` Java
int sum = 0;
int n = 0;
int average = sum/n;
```

dynamic error
Division by 0 cannot produce an integer

#### Example 5
``` Java
double sum = 7;
double n = 0;
double average = sum/n;
```
no error, wrong answer


## Arrays and Collections
### Fixed-length Sqeuence
``` Java
int[] a = new int[100];
```
- Indexing：`a[2]`
- Assignment：`a[2]=0`
- Length：`a.length`

It may cause an error: out-of-index
The less-safe languages like C and C++ that don't do automatic runtime checking of arry accesses. It might cause problems in a large number of network security breaches and internet worms.

### Variable-length Sequence 
``` Java
List<Integer> list = new Arraylist<>();
```
- Indexing：`list.get(2)`
- Assignment：`list.set(2,0)`
- Length：`list.size()`

`List<Integer>` instead of `List<int>`. Lists only know how to deal with object types, not primitive types.

### Iterating
``` Java
// find the maximum point of a hailstone sequence stored in list
int max = 0;
for (int x : list) {
    max = Math.max(x, max);
}
```

### Methods
In Java, statements generally have to be inside a method, and every method has to be in a class

## Immutable
Change is a necessary evil. But a good SWE try to avoid things that change
`String` is immutable in both Python and Java
Immutable references: variables that are assigned once and never reassigned

``` Java
final int n = 5;
```




