# Testing


## Validation
The purpose of validation is to uncover problems in a program and thereby increase your confidence in the program's correctness.

## Test-first programming
The development of a single function proceeds in order
- Spec: Write a specification for the function
- Test: Write tests that exercise the specification
- Implement: Write the implementation



## Systematic testing
Correct
Thorough: caused by mistakes that programmers are likely to make
Small: faster to write, easier to update, and faster to run


## Paritioning method
- Divide the input space into subdomains
- boundaries between subdomains

### Example 1

``` Java
/**
 * ...
 * @param a  the argument whose absolute value is to be determined
 * @return the absolute value of the argument.
 */
public static int abs(int a)

// partition: a>=0, a<0;
```




### Example 2
```
/**
 * @param val another BigInteger
 * @return a BigInteger whose value is (this * val).
 */
public BigInteger multiply(BigInteger val)

BigInteger a = ...;
BigInteger b = ...;
BigInteger ab = a.multiply(b);
```

multiply : BigInteger × BigInteger → BigInteger

The subdomains:
    - a and b are both positive
    - a and b are both negative
    - a is positive, b is negative
    - a is negative, b is positive
    - 0, 1, -1
    - very very largr number, larger than Long.MAX_VALUE
    - very very small number, smaller than Long.MIN_VALUE

We can design (a,b) space. Both a and b are independent
    - 0
    - 1
    - -1
    - Positive Integer
    - Negative Integer
    - Very Large Positive Integer
    - Very Large Negative Integer



## Boundaries

Common boundaries:
- 0 between positive and negative number
- Maximum and minimum value in numeric type (int and double)
- Empty set (empty string, empty collections, empty array) 

### Example 


### 例子

We want to test `public static int abs(int a)`
- (10) -> a > 0
- (0) -> a = 0
- (-2) -> a < 0

Cartesian product

## Unit Test
JUnit is a widely-adopted Java unit testing library
The annotation `@Test`
Check the results using assertion methons `assertEquals`, `assertTrue`, `assertFalse`

``` Java 
@Test
public void test(){
    assertEquals(10, Math.abs(-10));
}

@Test
public void testSet(){
    Set<Integer> set = Set.of(123, 12, -1, 321, 463);
    int result = pickRandomly(set);
    assertTrue(set.contains(result), "Expected result to be from " + set + " but actually was " + result)
}

```


## Black box and glass box testing

Black box testing
- Choose test cases only from the specification, not the implementation of the function.
- Like `abs`, `max` `multiply` ...
- Validates the spec by exploring its behavior and writing clients (test cases)

Glass box testing
- Choose test cases with the knowledge of how the function is actually implemented.
- Depend actually the code or algo.
- Focus more on the implementation

## Coverage
- Statement coverage: Is every statement run by some test case?
- Branch coverage: for every `if` or `while` statement, aare both true and false direction taken by some test case?
- Path coverage: is every possible combinatikon of branches taken by some test case?


## Integration testing
A combination of modules, or even the entire program


## Automated testing
Running the tests and checking their results automatically.
运行测试并自动检查其结果
- 在更改代码时经常运行测试可防止程序退化（在修复新错误或添加新功能时引入其他错误）。

## Regression testing
Running all the tests after every change


## Summary
- Write tests before you write code.
- Systematic testing with partitioning and boundary values, to design a test suite that's correct, thorough, and small
- Glass box testing and statement coverage for filling out a test suite
- Unit-testing each module, in isolation as much as possible
- Automated regression testing to keep bugs from coming back
- Iterative development. Plan to redo some work.

3 key properties of good software
- Safe from bugs
- Easy to understand
- Ready for change
