# Code Review

2 purposes:
- Improving the code
    - Find bugs
    - Anticipate possible bugs
    - Check the clarity of the code
    - Check for consistency with project's stype standards
- Improving the programmer
    - Learn and teach each other
    - New language features
    - The design of the project
    - Coding standards
    - Learn new techniques


## Smelly Example 1
``` Java
public static int dayOfYear(int month, int dayOfMonth, int year) {
    if (month == 2) {
        dayOfMonth += 31;
    } else if (month == 3) {
        dayOfMonth += 59;
    } else if (month == 4) {
        dayOfMonth += 90;
    } else if (month == 5) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30;
    } else if (month == 6) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31;
    } else if (month == 7) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 30;
    } else if (month == 8) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 30 + 31;
    } else if (month == 9) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 31;
    } else if (month == 10) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 31 + 30;
    } else if (month == 11) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 31 + 30 + 31;
    } else if (month == 12) {
        dayOfMonth += 31 + 28 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 31 + 30 + 31 + 31;
    }
    return dayOfMonth;
}
```


## Don't Repeat Yourself (DRY)
There is an issue pops up when a bug in both copies and only fixing the bug in one place but on the other


## Comments where needed
Good comments make code easier to understand, safer from bugs, and ready for change.

``` Java
/**
 * Compute the hailstone sequence.
 * See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collatz_conjecture#Statement_of_the_problem
 * @param n starting number of sequence; requires n > 0.
 * @return the hailstone sequence starting at n and ending with 1.
 *         For example, hailstone(3)=[3,10,5,16,8,4,2,1].
 */
public static List<Integer> hailstoneSequence(int n) {...}
```


## Fail fast
- The code should reveal its bugs as early as possible.
- The earlier a problem is observed, the easier it is to find and fix.

## Avoid magic numbers
- Computer scientists understand 0, 1, and sometimes 2 
- All other constants are called magic. The reason is they appear as if out of thin air with no explanation.
Some reason for avoiding magic number
- A number is less readable than a name.
- Constants may need to change in the future.
- Constants may be dependent on other constants.


## One purpose for each variable
- Don't reuse parameters and variables.
- Method parameters, in particular, should generally be left unmodified. 
- Good idea to use `final` for method parameters
    - `final` keyword makes variables should never be reassigned

## Use good name
- Good method and variable names are long and self-descriptive.
    - Python uses snake_case
    - Java uses camelCase
    - Java uses capitalization for global constants (public static final), `ALL_CAPS_WITH_UNDERSCORES` is used for `static final` constants
    


## Don't use global variables
A globale variable
 - a variable, a name whose value can be changed.
 - that is global, accessible and changeable from anywhere in the program.
    
In Java, a global vairable is declared `public static`
 - `public` modifier makes variable accessible anywhere.
 - `static` means there is a single instance of the variable.


## Summary
 - Don't Repeate Yourself (DRY)
 - Comments where needed
 - Fail fast
 - Avoid magic numbers
 - One purpose for each variable
 - Use good names
 - Use whitespace to help the reader
 - Don't use global variables
 - Method should return results, not print them
 - Avoid special-case code

3 key properties of good software 
 - Safe from bugs
    - Use human reviewers
    - Document assumptions
    - Detect bugs as early as possible
    - Avoid global variables
 - Easy to understand
    - Use judicious comments
    - Avoid magic numbers
    - Keep 1 purpose for each variable
    - Use good names
 - Ready for change
    - DRY code is more ready for change, because a change only needs to be made in 1 place.
    - Return results instead of print them out.


